A visit to the city of Salvador in Brazil is an amazing experience.
The beaches and the city's natural beauty are appreciated by the almost three million people that live here today.
The people of the city of Salvador are known for their friendly smile, hospitality, and united spirit.
But something else is remarkable in this city.
After serving in many parts of Brazil, I noted a big difference when I came to Salvador.
The people here have a strong inclination toward spiritual things.
The city of Salvador alone has just over 2.9 million inhabitants.
Around 36,800 publishers and almost 41,400 Bible studies divided into 22 circuits and 351 congregations.
This means that there is about one publisher for every 78 inhabitants.
When we find someone who's interested, they have either studied in the past, their parents are witnesses,
they already study the Bible, or they want to study.
Such growth creates new difficulties and challenges for Jehovah's people.
Where will all these interested people meet to serve Jehovah?
There in Salvador, many brothers and sisters are concentrated in a very small area.
We had a hard time finding properties.
Besides that, the city is very hilly. It's almost impossible to find level properties.
And then there's the city's zoning ordinance. It's very restrictive.
So finding a suitable property was a real challenge.
But then we came across this one.
We thought, why not build there?
That's why these complexes are needed.
Like this one in Pituba, which has six kingdom halls and one property for 15 congregations.
There are about 20 of these complexes. Some have four kingdom halls, others have three or two.
According to the needs locally.
This is not a standard kingdom hall.
We usually don't approve or recommend a building this size due to the complexity in planning the project and even in using the building.
There will be high traffic of both people and vehicles every day for meetings throughout the week.
But the branch made an exception in this case due to the large concentration of publishers in the area.
That's why this six auditorium complex was built.
It has three double kingdom halls with about 200 seats in each auditorium.
One complex I visit has two kingdom halls, six congregations with about 750 publishers.
That creates another challenge.
When I meet her brother, it's hard to know what congregation he belongs to, since everybody lives so close to each other.
For many publishers, this was no more than just a dream.
A well-structured kingdom hall that's comfortable and well ventilated.
We can't afford that. One brother even said, it won't happen in my lifetime.
The hall is so big, it has many pretty things.
I thank Jehovah so much for having used this to build such a beautiful place for his worship and really all credit goes to him.
I'm so grateful to him and I hope to praise him even more in this kingdom hall he's prepared for us.
It's like a dream come true.
And now we have a suitable place where we can worship Jehovah.
Thank you, I don't deserve something this wonderful.
Thank you so much!
In Salvador and in many other regions of the earth, we clearly see the prophecy of Isaiah 54-2 being fulfilled by means of the construction of kingdom halls.
The natural beauty of Salvador itself moves us to praise the one who created it all.
But seeing how Jehovah is speeding things up and caring for his servants' needs in this crowded city, now that's something really special.